---
title: 'Trying to build a larger app'
date: '2024-05-14'
---

The internet is heavily saturated with courses for learning web development. Most of the courses are project based and enable us to follow along, and create fairly simple projects which don’t take an huge amount of time to complete. Now I’ve got nothing against this type of content, in fact I think it’s a fantastic way to get your feet wet in your particular area of interest. I myself have used many such courses. But what happens when you want to do something a bit more? How can beginners develop the skills of working on something slightly bigger? Jumping this hurdle was a real challenge for me, especially since the first language I learned was JavaScript. Just looking at all the different ways a project can be structured is enough to overwhelm someone just starting out.

After extensive research, and some friendly guidance. I was able to take the dive into a bigger project. Something that needed a little more planning than a simple To-Do app. An old Polish language teacher of mine wanted to create an app, specific to the Polish language for her English speaking students in the UK. Together with a programmer who mainly works on the backend, we began putting together some idea of what we wanted to achieve. This was immensely helpful for my learning, because I was presented with some real challenges which I had to solve specific to more than just a web based calculator. What platforms would it run on? What technology would it be written? We picked the tools that best suited us and our needs, and in the end, landed with React Native. Enabling access to both android and iOS, with the possibility of expanding to web, all from one codebase. It seemed like a good fit due to the limited time we can work on the app. We both have full time jobs, and I have more time than he does.

In my experience, it’s not been so easy working with React Native. It’s a young project, and although well supported, I find myself often waiting for community fixes, or spend a significant amount of time updating dependancies so that I can actually get to work. Sometimes it’s not even possible and I have to wait for a patch. Although at times it’s frustrating. It’s also proved incredibly beneficial, helping me improve my skills in all areas of a project rather than just in one place. And that’s more what I feel was happening on those smaller projects. They pushed me to a certain point, but then when I tried to move forward, I was stuck.

I think is also comes down to the process of learning. For a long time you don’t get it, then comes the understanding. But for this to happen you need to be exposed to different aspects of a project. I had to design the user interface. Figure out the navigation from page to page, and build the lessons that the users will interact with. I have to think about relevant settings the user might need to make the app work for them. And this is when I felt my mindset begin to change. When I began to understand just how much work goes into writing an app. And all this doesn’t even bring me close to putting the app into production.

I will continue to approach this project as an app with real prospects of becoming a production application. Weather or not this becomes a reality is another thing all together, and it isn’t the most important thing. The unlimited learning possibilities I have access to, give me the courage and motivation to continue forward.
